Move the recreate procedure to a separate page (#2367)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/database-administration/standard-databases/recreate-database.adoc

> :description: How to recreate your database in Neo4j.

Author: ```suggestion
:description: How to recreate your database in Neo4j.
:page-aliases: clustering/databases.adoc
```

* label:new[Introduced in 2025.04] Alter the database store format when clearing the data and schema.

[CAUTION]
====
The recreate procedure works only for real user databases and not for composite databases, or the `system` database.

Remember that the recreate procedure results in downtime while the stores get updated.
The time is unbounded and may depend on different factors -- for example, the size of the store, network speed, etc.
====

In Neo4j 2025.04, the xref:procedures.adoc#procedure_dbms_cluster_recreateDatabase[`dbms.cluster.recreateDatabase()`] procedure is deprecated in favor of xref:procedures.adoc#procedure_dbms_recreateDatabase[`dbms.recreateDatabase()`].

=== Syntax

[source, shell]
----
dbms.recreateDatabase(database :: STRING, options = {} :: MAP)
----

Input arguments are the database name and list of the seeding and topology options used for recreating a database.

.Seeding and topology options of the recreate procedure
[cols="2a,4",frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description 

|seedingServers
|A list of possible seeding servers.

> You can define available servers of provide an empty list.

Reviewer: I think it is supposed to be "or" instead of "of"

For details, see <<seed-servers, Use available servers as a seed>>.

|seedURI

> |URI of a source backup or a dump file.

Author: ```suggestion
|External source specified by URI.
```

|clearData label:new[Introduced in 2025.02]

> |Allows you to delete tha data and schema for a database, while keeping the database privileges assigned to each role.

Reviewer: "the" instead of "tha"

|storeFormat label:new[Introduced in 2025.04]
|Allows you to change the database store format when clearing the data and schema.

|primaries

> |Number of servers in a primary constrained mode.

Reviewer: This is not true, and could be confused with the mode constraints on servers instead of the mode of a specific database allocation on a server. A more accurate description would be something like "Number of primary allocations for the recreated database"

If you set number of primaries without secondaries, then secondaries is set to `0`.
For more details, see <<alter-topology-recreate, Change the topology>>.

|secondaries

> |Number of servers in a secondary constrained mode.

Reviewer: Same here "Number of secondary allocations for the recreated database"

> |Number of servers in a secondary constrained mode.

Author: ```suggestion
|Number of secondary allocations for the recreated database.
```

You cannot set secondaries without primaries.

|===

> === Considerations

Author: ```suggestion
=== Prerequisites and considerations
```

The database in question can be in an `online` or `offline` state when it is recreated, but a successful operation starts the database regardless of its previous state.

If your database has Change Data Capture (CDC) enabled, the CDC chain will stop when the database is recreated, even though CDC remains enabled in the recreated database.
To restore CDC functionality, follow the guide on how link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cdc/current/existing-databases/[to initialize CDC applications from an existing database].

Before recreating a database, any eventual quarantined states need to be addressed.
For more information, see xref:database-administration/standard-databases/errors.adoc#quarantine[Standard databases -> Error handling].

You need xref:authentication-authorization/dbms-administration.adoc#access-control-dbms-administration-database-management[the `CREATE DATABASE` and `DROP DATABASE` privileges] to run the recreate procedure.

> Additionally, you have the option to modify <<alter-topology-recreate, the topology>> during the recreation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, in a cluster deployment, you have the option to modify <<alter-topology-recreate, the topology>> during the recreation process.
```

However, note that the store format (up to Neo4j 2025.04), access, and enrichment cannot be altered during recreation.
Starting with 2025.04, the store format can only be altered if the `clearData` option is used.

To check if the recreation is successful, use the `SHOW DATABASES` command and verify that all allocations have been started.

[[recreate-seeding-options]]
== Seeding options

The store to be used during the recreation of a database can be defined in different ways.
One method uses a backup, while others use available allocations in the cluster.

You can use either <<uri-seed, `seedURI`>> or <<seed-servers, `seedingServers`>> to specify the source from which the database should be recreated.

* If you define neither, an error is thrown.

* If you define both of them, then `seedingServers` must be an empty list.
See <<undefined-servers-backup, Undefined servers with fallback backup>> for more details.

* If `seedingServers` is not empty and `seedURI` is also defined, an error will occur.

[[uri-seed]]

> === Use backup as a seed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Use a backup as a seed
```

If you provide a URI to a backup or a dump, the stores on all allocations will be replaced by the backup or the dump at the given URI.
The new allocations can be put on any `ENABLED` server in the cluster.
See xref::database-administration/standard-databases/seed-from-uri.adoc[Seed from URI] for more details.

[source, shell]
----
CALL dbms.recreateDatabase("neo4j", {seedURI: "s3://myBucket/myBackup.backup"});
----

[[seed-servers]]
=== Use available servers as a seed

> After the recreation is complete, the database will have the latest data store from the seeding servers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a cluster deployment, after the recreation is complete, the database will have the latest data store from the seeding servers.
```

Reviewer: I think this is true also for standalone cases, it is just that there is only one possible server which can be defined in "seedingServers"

[CAUTION]
====
Recreation is based on remaining stores or a store defined by the user.

> This means that stores which were lost or not defined are not used for the recreation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that lost or undefined stores cannot be used for recreation.
```

Reviewer: This is a small detail, but might be important for understandability for some users. There is the distinction that lost stores cannot be used even if the user would want to, while non defined stores could be used even if the user has decided not to do that.

> If not used stores were more up to date than the used ones, this results in data loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If not used, stores were more up to date than the used ones, resulting in data loss.
```

Reviewer: This is not true, that depends on the up-to-dateness of lost stores and which stores where defined in seeding servers. You might loose a bunch of servers and only define one of the ones left and still end up with no data loss.

> ====

Author: @AnnaSjerling, what do you think about the following version:

````
Recreation is based on available remaining stores or a specific store explicitly defined by the user.
Stores that are lost or not explicitly specified are excluded from the recreation process.
Therefore, if the excluded stores contained more recent data than those used, data loss may occur.
````

Reviewer: That sounds ok to me if we say "or specific stores explicitly" since the user might define multiple. Nice!

Author: Sure! I'll update the PR

+
[source, shell]
----
CALL dbms.recreateDatabase("neo4j", {seedingServers: ["serverId1", "serverId2", "serverId3"]});
----

[[undefined-servers]]
Undefined servers::

If you provide an empty list of seeding servers and do not specify a `seedURI`, Neo4j automatically selects all available allocations of the database as seeders.
The store will be replaced by the most up-to-date seeder available in the cluster.
+
[source, shell]
----
CALL dbms.recreateDatabase("neo4j", {seedingServers: []});
----

[[undefined-servers-backup]]
Undefined servers with fallback backup::

If both an empty list of seeding servers and a `seedURI` are provided, Neo4j finds all available allocations of the database and use those as seeders.
However, if no available servers can be found, the database is recreated based on the backup or the dump defined by the URI.
This means the store is replaced by the most up-to-date seeder if available; otherwise, the backup is used.
+
[source, shell]
----
CALL dbms.recreateDatabase("neo4j", {seedingServers: [], seedURI: "s3://myBucket/myBackup.backup"});
----

[[alter-topology-recreate]]
== Change the topology

> There is an option to define a new topology when recreating a database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a cluster deployment, there is an option to define a new topology when recreating a database.
```

:description: How to recreate your database in Neo4j.

> :page-aliases: clustering/databases.adoc

Author: ```suggestion
```
